README.md, before:

# Redis-Operator

![logo](docs/imgs/logo.png)

### Build Status
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AmadeusITGroup/Redis-Operator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AmadeusITGroup/Redis-Operator)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator)



## Project status: alpha

This is an ongoing project.

The aim of this project is to ease the deployment and operations of a [Redis-cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial) in a [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) environment. It started internally at Amadeus in 2016, we initially designed this project to run on [Openshift](https://www.openshift.com/). This is the second version of our Redis-Operator that is based now on Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) for representing the RedisCluster configuration.

## Overview

The Redis-cluster will be deployed thanks to a unique deployment. Each node of the Redis-cluster is running in its own Pod; At startup, each node has no active role (not slave nor master with slot), it just joins the cluster as a master without slot. See representation in the schema below 

![Initial state](docs/imgs/overview_1.png)

At this point you have your redis process running, each node is aware of each other, but only one master prossess all slots.

In order to configure properly the different redis-servers and setup the redis cluster, we introduce the `Redis-Operator`.

The `redis-operator` is watching a new kind of Custom-Resource `RedisCluster` that stores the redis-cluster configuration: number of masters, and the replication factor (number of slaves by master) and the pod template. Then the `redis-operator` tries to apply this configuration to the set of redis-server processes. If the number of redis-servers doesn't correspond to the provided configuration, the manager scales the redis-node pods to obtain the proper number of redis-nodes.

Then reconciliation is constantly done between the state of the cluster and the configuration stored in the `RedisCluster` CR.

### Develpment

If you want to take part of the development, you can follow the document: [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Deployment

you can found checkt the [docs/cookbook.md](docs/cookbook.md) that is a step by step commands cookbook to test/demo the deployment of the operator and a redis-cluster with minikube.

### Deployment environment requirements

As said, the project was initially designed to works on Openshift, but now support also Kubernetes. Please check the minimum environment version in the table below.

| Environment  | Version |
|--------------|---------|
| Openshift    | >= 3.7  |
| Kubernetes   | >= 1.7  |

### Helm deployment

You can found in the `charts` folder two helm charts:

- `redis-operator`: used to deploy the `redis-operator` into your kubernetes cluster.
- `redis-cluster`: used to create a "Redis Cluster" instance thanks to the `redis-operator`.

#### Instanciate the `redis-operator`:

```console
helm install --name op charts/redis-operator
NAME:   op
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Jan  9 23:41:13 2018
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: DEPLOYED

RESOURCES:
==> v1beta1/Deployment
NAME               DESIRED  CURRENT  UP-TO-DATE  AVAILABLE  AGE
op-redis-operator  1        1        1           0          0s
```

TODO: document RBAC support.

#### Create your "Redis-Cluster"

Thanks to the helm chart `chart/redis-cluster` you can create a `RedisCluster` Custom Resource which will be processed by the `redis-operator`.

You can configure the Topology of the cluster by providing your own `values.yml` file to helm, or settings the value with the `--set` parameters when you execute `helm install`

```console
helm install --name mycluster charts/redis-cluster --set numberOfMaster=3 --set replicationFactor=1
...
```

#### Install the kubctl redis-cluster plugin

docs available [here](docs/kubectl-plugin.md).

### Deployment from source code

#### Build the container images

```console
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator
make container
CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=linux go build -i -installsuffix cgo -ldflags '-w' -o docker/operator/operator ./cmd/operator/main.go
CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=linux go build -i -installsuffix cgo -ldflags '-w' -o docker/redisnode/redisnode ./cmd/redisnode/main.go
```

you can define the docker images tag by adding the variable "VERSION"

```console
make TAG=<Your-TAG> container
```

publish the docker images in your docker registry

```console
make TAG=<Your-TAG> publish
```

In addition to the version, you can also specify the docker registry where will be publish the docker images with the variable DOCKER_REGISTRY

```console
make DOCKER_REGISTRY="mydockerregistry:5000/" TAG=<Your-TAG> publish
```

### How to Release the Redis-Operator

This project is using [goreleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) and an additional script for releasing also the Helm chart.

For starting the delivery, you need to clone this repository, then:

```console
zsh hack/release.sh <version> <remove-git>
```

a concreate example is: ```zsh ./hack/release.sh v1.0.1 upstream```

This script:

- generates locally the helm chart with the requested version.
- updates the helm repo index file (```docs/index.yaml```) file with the new release.
- creates a new changeset with all changes generated by the new release version, then tag this changeset.
- push changeset and associated tag to the remote git repository.

Commit message:

New travis stage for docker push on master branch (#25)
Fixes: #24

after each merge on master branch travis will build and push the docker
images with the tag: "master"

README.md, after:

# Redis-Operator

![logo](docs/imgs/logo.png)

### Build Status
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AmadeusITGroup/Redis-Operator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AmadeusITGroup/Redis-Operator)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator)



## Project status: alpha

This is an ongoing project.

The aim of this project is to ease the deployment and operations of a [Redis-cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial) in a [kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) environment. It started internally at Amadeus in 2016, we initially designed this project to run on [Openshift](https://www.openshift.com/). This is the second version of our Redis-Operator that is based now on Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) for representing the RedisCluster configuration.

## Overview

The Redis-cluster will be deployed thanks to a unique deployment. Each node of the Redis-cluster is running in its own Pod; At startup, each node has no active role (not slave nor master with slot), it just joins the cluster as a master without slot. See representation in the schema below 

![Initial state](docs/imgs/overview_1.png)

At this point you have your redis process running, each node is aware of each other, but only one master prossess all slots.

In order to configure properly the different redis-servers and setup the redis cluster, we introduce the `Redis-Operator`.

The `redis-operator` is watching a new kind of Custom-Resource `RedisCluster` that stores the redis-cluster configuration: number of masters, and the replication factor (number of slaves by master) and the pod template. Then the `redis-operator` tries to apply this configuration to the set of redis-server processes. If the number of redis-servers doesn't correspond to the provided configuration, the manager scales the redis-node pods to obtain the proper number of redis-nodes.

Then reconciliation is constantly done between the state of the cluster and the configuration stored in the `RedisCluster` CR.

### Develpment

If you want to take part of the development, you can follow the document: [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Deployment

you can found checkt the [docs/cookbook.md](docs/cookbook.md) that is a step by step commands cookbook to test/demo the deployment of the operator and a redis-cluster with minikube.

### Deployment environment requirements

As said, the project was initially designed to works on Openshift, but now support also Kubernetes. Please check the minimum environment version in the table below.

| Environment  | Version |
|--------------|---------|
| Openshift    | >= 3.7  |
| Kubernetes   | >= 1.7  |

### Helm deployment

You can found in the `charts` folder two helm charts:

- `redis-operator`: used to deploy the `redis-operator` into your kubernetes cluster.
- `redis-cluster`: used to create a "Redis Cluster" instance thanks to the `redis-operator`.

#### Instanciate the `redis-operator`:

```console
helm install --name op charts/redis-operator
NAME:   op
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Jan  9 23:41:13 2018
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: DEPLOYED

RESOURCES:
==> v1beta1/Deployment
NAME               DESIRED  CURRENT  UP-TO-DATE  AVAILABLE  AGE
op-redis-operator  1        1        1           0          0s
```

TODO: document RBAC support.

#### Create your "Redis-Cluster"

Thanks to the helm chart `chart/redis-cluster` you can create a `RedisCluster` Custom Resource which will be processed by the `redis-operator`.

You can configure the Topology of the cluster by providing your own `values.yml` file to helm, or settings the value with the `--set` parameters when you execute `helm install`

```console
helm install --name mycluster charts/redis-cluster --set numberOfMaster=3 --set replicationFactor=1
...
```

> **! Warning !**, if you want to use the docker images corresponding  to the level of code present in the "master" branch. you need to set the image tag when you instanciate the Redis-Cluster chart and the Redis-Operator chart. The "latest" tag is corresponding to the last validated release.

```console
helm install --name mycluster charts/redis-cluster --set image.tag=master --set numberOfMaster=3 --set replicationFactor=1
...
```

#### Install the kubctl redis-cluster plugin

docs available [here](docs/kubectl-plugin.md).

### Deployment from source code

#### Build the container images

```console
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/amadeusitgroup/redis-operator
make container
CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=linux go build -i -installsuffix cgo -ldflags '-w' -o docker/operator/operator ./cmd/operator/main.go
CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=linux go build -i -installsuffix cgo -ldflags '-w' -o docker/redisnode/redisnode ./cmd/redisnode/main.go
```

you can define the docker images tag by adding the variable "VERSION"

```console
make TAG=<Your-TAG> container
```

publish the docker images in your docker registry

```console
make TAG=<Your-TAG> publish
```

In addition to the version, you can also specify the docker registry where will be publish the docker images with the variable DOCKER_REGISTRY

```console
make DOCKER_REGISTRY="mydockerregistry:5000/" TAG=<Your-TAG> publish
```

### How to Release the Redis-Operator

This project is using [goreleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) and an additional script for releasing also the Helm chart.

For starting the delivery, you need to clone this repository, then:

```console
zsh hack/release.sh <version> <remove-git>
```

a concreate example is: ```zsh ./hack/release.sh v1.0.1 upstream```

This script:

- generates locally the helm chart with the requested version.
- updates the helm repo index file (```docs/index.yaml```) file with the new release.
- creates a new changeset with all changes generated by the new release version, then tag this changeset.
- push changeset and associated tag to the remote git repository.
